---
layout: page
title: "About Me"
permalink: /about/
---
Hello, I'm Zachary Tieu, Technical Designer and Programmer, a 2025 USC Graduate with a degree in Computer Sceience Games! I'm passionate about designing and implementing mechanics that make the stories within and born from games sing. My main experiences is in programming and design for games in Unity or tabletop, but I've dabbled in Unreal and am trying to improve there. Core skillset is of course, scripting in C# and C++ as well gameplay design, but I've a deep love for narrative design and always aim to have that in consideration when doing my work.

Outside of video games, tabletop role-playing games and manga/webcomics are my favorite ways to pas the time. I'm always happy to pore over a new gamebook and pick apart the rules, even if it's a system I won't get the chance to play. I'm just as happy of course keeping up to date with the new hotness in Shonen and Manhwa. Top recommendations right now would be 1000 yen hero, a lesser known manga where heroes need to burn cash to fight, Isshou Senkin, the latest work of the man behind Kengan Ashura and Danberu, and The Knight Only Lives Tomorrow, a fairly recent webtoon that I think is gonna be the next big thing.

Whether you want to talk shop or just wanna have a chat about the hobbies we all engage in (please do I need more friends who play Omega Strikers), feel free to hit me up on Linkedin or via email!

  Favorite Game Genre: Turn-Based Strategy! They're a great mix, at least in my own opinion: the transition to turns instead of real-time incentivizes having fewer, more interesting units compared to RTS, very naturally leading to the addtion of the customization and teambuilding that the RPG genre brings.\
  
  Favorite Game(s): 
* Single-player Game: Harebrained Studio’s Shadowrun. A great introduction to the tabletop setting and the alternative options various builds enable make it a shining example of a CRPG, where builds serve more than gameplay purposes and instead are storytelling mechanics in of themselves. Alongside a well-paced, intriguing story and a host of memorable companions (at least, starting with the second and third game in the series), it's my absolute #1 pick for games I'd recommend to others. Things only get better with the mods, shout out to Cirion's additions to the game!
* Multiplayer Game: Odyssey Interactive's Omega Strikers. A vibrant setting inhabited by equally outlandish characters (lizard war criminal? Giant soondubu hamster? AI companion catgirl? Sure, why not!) that altogether just form a visually rich, endearing, and flat-out fun to look at game. Gameplay-wise, it mixes fast-paced sports action with the MOBA genre into its own unique identity, leveraging the fast paced moment to moment intensity of air hockey and the hero shooter/MOBA-style of character design to make a game that really never gives the player a moment to breathe in the best way possible. Add to that the awakening system of powerups to give depth and progression as each match progresses, and you have my personal pick for competitive games.
* Game to Study: Pokemon. It's a fascinatingly deep game, with a rich history only afforded to a game series of Pokemon's size and scope. As a case study for internal balance and develping metas, it truly is in a league of its own. TCG's come close in the number of options available to players, but due to Pokemon's tiered system of competitive viability (various tiers of play based on how often pokemon are used at the highest levels) there's so many various ecosystems in play at a time that the game truly just towers above everything else.
* Tabletop Game: Massif Press's Lancer. A system that draws you in with the unique, intense artstyle of the man behind Kill Six Billion demons and keeps you invested with a incredibly rich and crunchy game of mech combat. Lancer doesn't hide what it does and simply focuses on doing that well. Pilot action and roleplay elements exist, but mainly serve to ferry players along to the meat of the game: smashing steel into steel and watching the sparks fly. Incredibly well balanced with a wealth of options that allow players to make almost any mech they can think of sing and even be the star of battle, a truly exemplary set of tools for both players and GM's alike, and a flexible setting with well-defined roots make it my top pick for TTRPG's.
